BDD with Symfony and Behat
==========================

Symfony2 is a `Web Application Framework <http://symfony.com/>`_ that can be easily integrated and used seamlessly with Behat 3.
In this tutorial we will extend ideas explained in  :doc:`/quick_intro_pt1`,
so if you don't feel comfortable enough it's recommended to step back and have a look on it.

As a prerequisite we need to assume, you have some knowledge of Symfony framework,
if you don't have any please have a look into `documentation <http://symfony.com/doc/current/book/index.html>`_.
We will explain used concepts, but in case something is not really clear this line is the best source to look at.

In previous article we decided to develop a online shopping platform which allows clients to buy products.
In this step we will actually extend previously built Domain Model,
and make use of it inside real web application written in Symfony framework,
so you will be able to see incremental evolution of product.

Setting up Symfony project
--------------------------

Recommended way of managing Behat dependency in your project is to use `Composer <https://getcomposer.org/)>`_,
and we also did recommend that in previous tutorial. From this point, this is the official one.
We will not support others because it will be a pain to manage dependencies, and you want to learn good practices, don't you?

In order to create a new Symfony project we need to run following command:

.. code-block:: bash

    $ php composer.phar create-project symfony/framework-standard-edition bdd-with-symfony '2.5.*'

During the installation process script will ask us a question: ``Would you like to install Acme demo bundle? [y/N]``.
Because we are going to implement our app from scratch suggested option is ``N`` - we will not need to remove any unnecessary config.
All the questions that will follow will be about parameters, but just pressing return for all of them will be fine, defaults here are sensible for our example.

Now it's time to copy your composer.phar file to project directory, open it and verify Symfony installation.

.. code-block:: bash

    $ cp composer.phar bdd-with-symfony
    $ cd bdd-with-symfony
    $ php app/check.php

As an output of this message you should get nice green box with sucess message ``[OK] Your system is ready to run Symfony2 projects``.
If it doesn't happen Symfony's command line check will suggest way of fixing existing problems, and please sort them out.
